# CS360
• Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
o The goal of the app I developed is to help users track inventory and be alerted to items low in stock, all from the convenience of their phone. The app was designed to help keep users organized, have access to inventory information anywhere, be able to edit any item, and receive text alerts for low stock items. This will hopefully help users stay on top of inventory quantities and always have the right amount in stock to cover their business or personal needs.
• What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
o Some important screens and features include a log in page to ensure security, a home page with the inventory database, a way to edit add and delete items, and a way to see low stock items and request texts. The UI is meant to be clean, easy to understand, and easy to move from page to page. Users can not only sign in but also sign up all on the same home screen for ease of access. Users can view their items in alphabetical order for easy sorting and searching. I kept consistent color and styles from each screen to provide a consistent experience page to page.
• How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
o I approached the process of coding my app by focusing on pieces and features individually. I wanted to implement each item one by one so that I could test and compile the application consistently to ensure that it works correctly with each new item. I wanted to start with the initial UI and code the xml layout of each screen. Once completed, it was time to create the functioning code to get each screen to work properly. I started with the log in, moving to the home screen, and working on the databases and extra features afterwards. I utilized what Android studio was able to provide for things like the basic log in screen, and the recycler view for databases.
• How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
o Testing is one of the most important steps in the creation process. It includes compiling and running the application, using either a physical android phone or the emulator to run a simulation and tests. It’s important to test out all possibilities of what users might type or click to see how the app behaves. It’s also important after each new feature has been added to test and ensure previous ones still work. I ran into a couple issues where once I added the code to complete a new feature, something else had stopped working during the testing.
• Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
o The biggest challenge I was facing was I had a lot of grand ideas during the initial planning of features and things I wanted to implement, but when it came down to it I had very little experience of how to implement them. I had to go beyond my understanding and experiences just to be able to include all the required features, let alone anything extra. I took outside help with researching how certain features needed to be coded and laid out to be able to build the application. I was thankful Android studio included a basic code outline for things like the Login screen to help get me set up and work around.
• In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
o I felt particularly successful in implementing the recycler view of the inventory database. I felt like I was able to lay out the items in an easy-to-understand way, and I included features like a red “low” warning, a scroll view, and was able to get the items to display in Alphabetical order. I thought the layout was polished and provided the user with all the information they needed.
 